## Java MQTT Client
### Itron Developer Program SDK


### Current Version Info
Current version is 1.0.2.
See the changes.md file for details.


#### Overview
A component of the Itron developer program reference SDK, the Java MQTT client is a standalone
utility that can be used to retrieve payloads generated by Itron based IoT devices
generating MQTT "bubble-up" data.

The MQTT Client is packaged as a jar and takes a property file that defines Itron network
parameters and options. You can run the client on Linux, Windows, and MacOS.

The client is designed for extended runtime. It acts as a simple server that
you can use to retrieve device payloads and consume them.
The reference client is designed to work with the DHT-11 temperature sensor.
It sends device payloads to the Starfish Data Platform where you can retrieve them using the
Starfish Data Platform "observations" API.

The MQTT Client is very happy running in a VM environment (such as an AWS EC2).


To run the client use a command of this form in a shell or command prompt window:
```$xslt
java -Dconfig.properties=<path to properties file> -jar sdkmqttclient-1.0.2.one-jar.jar
```
For example, if your properties file is named "test.properties" and is located in the same
directory as the jar file:
```$xslt
java -Dconfig.properties=./test.properties -jar sdkmqttclient-1.0.2.one-jar.jar
```


#### Build Prerequisites 
To build the MQTT Client you will need the following tools installed on your system:
- Java 8
- Maven (version 3+)


#### Checklist
The steps needed to build and prep the MQTT Client for use:
- Install the build prerequisites
- Build the Java MQTT Client
- Determine your Starfish account Client Id and Client Secret
- Determine your Starfish Tenant Id of your Silver Spring IoT device
- Setup MQTT properties file
- Use the MQTT Client


#### Build Java MQTT Client
You have probably already cloned the Itron developer program GitHub repository. If not, now's the time!

The Java CoAP Client is available on GitHub as part of the developer_program repository.
First, clone the GitHub repository. Point your browser to the following URL:
`https://github.com/silverspringnetworks/developer_program`.

Change your working directory
to `C:\<project base>\developer_program\SDK\Java MQTT Client`.
Note that you need to fill in the <project base> part of the path based on where you cloned the repository.
Use this command to build the MQTT client:

```$xslt
mvn clean install
```

Note: If the build fails due to missing artifacts, you may need to change you maven settings.xml to access
the appropriate remote maven repositories. 
The resultant jar can found in the target subdirectory
(using the sample directory used above):

```$xslt
C:\<project base>\developer_program\SDK\Java MQTT Client\target\sdkmqttclient-1.0.2.one-jar.jar
```
The jar is built as an all in one jar, it contains all libraries and dependencies need to use the
client.


#### Determine Starfish Client Id and Client Secret
Your Starfish Client Id and Client Secret can be obtained from your Starfish Developer Program account.
Hopefully you captured these when you created your account. If not, you will need to create a new set
as Starfish does not store your client Id and Secret.
After you log into the developer program portal, select the "Account Settings" tab.
Towards the middle of thee page, locate and click on the "ClientID/Secret" tab.
Click on the "Create New ClientID/Secret" button. Make sure to write you Client Id and Client Secret down!


#### Determine your Starfish Tenant Id
To determine your Starfish Tenant Id, follow this procedure:
- Using the Starfish Data Platform tokens API, obtain a Starfish token.
The easiest way to do this is to use the Starfish Studio API sandbox:
(https://studio.developer.ssni.com/studio.html) and click on the "View APIs" tab after you logon.
Locate the /api/tokens API, fill in the required "body" with your Client Id and Client Secret,
and click the "try it out!" button. Look at the response and you will find a token.
- Copy the token (it's a long string).
- Next, visit the JWT web site (https://jwt.io)
- Locate the "Encoded" panel on the left hand side of the page. Replace the text in this panel with your token.
- You will see your JWT (extracted from your token) in the "Decoded" panel on the right hand side.
- locate the "sub" property. The assocaited value is your Tenant Id. Tenant ID's will always start with a "TN".

A typical JWT will look something like this:
```json
{
  "iss": "/data",
  "sub": "TN0050f6aa53-0a1c-461f-a774-243f94ce9b21",
  "scope": "api",
  "accessPolicy": [
    {
      "Action": "execute-api:Invoke",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "*/api/solutions/*"
    },
    {
      "Action": "execute-api:Invoke",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "GET/api/tenants/systemTenant/devicetemplates"
    }
  ],
  "jti": "1d9bca68-754c-4702-a792-438086f5deaf",
  "iat": 1540584982,
  "exp": 1540588582
}
```

#### MQTT Authentication Methods
Two authentication methods are provided: token based and CAAS based.

Token based authentication is typically the method you will use.
If you have not worked with Itron and been given CAAS account credentials,
than you will use the token based method.

When using Token based authentication, the MQTT Client will only receive payloads for devices that live
in your tenant (that is, devices that show up on Starfish Developer Portal  account).
When using CAAS authentication, the MQTT Client will receive payloads for all devices.
This is specifically used when the MQTT Client (or your client which can be based on the MQTT Client code)
is deployed into a Itron customer specific network (not the Starfish network).

##### Token Based
The MQTT Client uses your Client Id and Client Secret to obtain a token when it establishes an MQTT broker session.
Note that the `MQTTSDPBRIDGE_USE_TOKEN_AUTH` property must be set to 1 (the default).

##### CAAS Based
To use CAAS, include your CAAS username and password in the property file.
The MQTT Client will use these credentials when it established an MQTT broker session.
Note that the `MQTTSDPBRIDGE_USE_TOKEN_AUTH` property must be set to 0 to use CAAS authentication.


#### MQTT Topic Naming Conventions
We use a specific MQTT topic naming convention with the Starfish MQTT broker.
Device payload data is published to the MQTT broker using topic naming that uses this form:
```$xslt
<Tenant Id>/alert/<Mac Address>/<Sensor Type>
```

| Topic Part | Description |
| --- | --- |
| \<Tenant Id\> | Your Starfish Tenant Id (see above).
| alert | String. Always use.
| \<Mac Address\> | mac address of an IoT device.
| \<Sensor Type\> | Sensor type string. For example "temp"

You may use MQTT wildcards in the topic name. This makes it easy to craft one topic to cover all your devices.
Here are a few examples.

| Topic | Description |
| --- | --- |
| TN0050f6aa53-0a1c-461f-a774-243f94ce9b21/alert/+/temp | Retrieve payloads for all my temp sensors
| TN0050f6aa53-0a1c-461f-a774-243f94ce9b21/alert/+/+ | Retrieve payloads for all my sensors
| TN0050f6aa53-0a1c-461f-a774-243f94ce9b21/alert/001350050047dd92/temp | Retrieve payloads for a specific temp sensor



#### MQTT Client Property File
The client requires one command line option - the path to a property file (see above).
This file contains a number of properties that provide needed information such as your Client Id and Client Secret.

There are a number of properties where you are required to specify the values.
The rest are defaults that can be used to tune the MQTT Client.
It is suggested that you change the non-required properties only if required for you solution.
A template property file is provided for your use called `config.properties`.

The following section describes the configuration/command line options available to you.


#### Property Descriptions
All property configuration options are described in this section.

| Property Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_TENANT_ID | **Required**. Your Tenant Id.
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_TOPIC | **Required**. A Topic will have this form: \<Tenant Id\>/alert/+/+. For example: TN0050f6aa53-0a1c-461f-a774-243f94ce9b21/alert/+/+
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_USERNAME | **Required**. CAAS username or "notused" if using token authentication.
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_PASSWORD | **Required**. CAAS password or blank if using token authentication.
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_SDP_CLIENT_ID| **Required**. Your Starfish account Client Id.
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_SDP_CLIENT_SECRET | **Required**. Your Starfish account Client Secret.
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_CLIENT_ID | **Required**. A unique MQTT client id. Up to 32 characters. Suggested form: mqtt-client-<20 char string of your choice>
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_BROKER_HOST | Host name of the MQTT broker. Defaults to: api.mqtt-staging.developer.ssni.com
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_USE_TOKEN_AUTH | Set to 1 for token authentication. Set to 0 for CAAS authentication. Defaults to 1.
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_BROKER_PROTOCOL | Protocol used with the MQTT broker. Defaults to ssl.
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_BROKER_PORT | MQTT broker port. Defaults to 8883.
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_QOS | MQTT broker QoS. Defaults to 0. 
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_SDP_TOKEN_ENDPOINT | Starfish Data Platform tokens endpoint. Do not change.
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_SDP_OBSERVATION_ENDPOINT | Starfish Data Platform observations endpoint. Do not change.
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_SDP_GET_DEVICE_INFO | Cache tenant device info. Set to 0 to avoid sending payloads to Starfish Data Platform. Defaults to 1. Change carefully.
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_CONNECTION_ATTEMPTS | Number of time to attempt a connection with MQTT broker. Defaults to 1440.
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_CONNECTION_DELAY | Time delay between connection attempts (ms). Defaults to 60000.
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_IDLE_LOOP_DELAY | Idle loop delay (ms). Defaults to 100.
| MQTTSDPBRIDGE_KEEP_ALIVE_INTERVAL | MQTT broker keep alive interval. Defaults to 3.

